pages/docs/analytics/model-usage-and-cost.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  AssistMe tracks usage and cost of LLM generations for various models (incl OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, and more). Add your own model definitions to track any model or custom pricing.
---

# Model Usage & Cost

Across AssistMe, usage and cost are tracked for LLM generations:

- **Usage**: token/character counts
- **Cost**: USD cost of the generation

Both usage and cost can be either

- [**ingested**](#ingest) via API or integrations
- or [**inferred**](#infer) based on the `model` parameter of the generation. AssistMe comes with a list of predefined popular models and their tokenizers including OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google models.

Ingested usage and cost are prioritized over inferred usage and cost:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  A[Ingested Observation]
  B["Usage (tokens or other unit)"]
  C["Cost (in USD)"]
  A --> D{Includes usage?}
  D -->|Yes| B
  D -->|No| E(Use tokenizer) --> B
  A --> F{Includes cost?}
  F -->|Yes| C
  F -->|No| G(Use model price/unit) --> C
  B -->|use usage| G
```

## Ingest usage and/or cost [#ingest]

If available in the LLM response, ingesting usage and/or cost is the most accurate and robust way to track usage in AssistMe:

<Tabs items={["API"]}>
  <Tab>
 
  ```bash
  curl --location 'http://staging.assistme.chat/api/v1/observations' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'Accept: application/json' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer {AssistMe_public_key}"
  --data '{
    "page": "<optional_string>",
    "limit": "<optional_string>",
    "name": "<optional_string>",
    "userId": "<optional_string>",
    "type": "<optional_string>",
    "traceId": "<optional_string>",
    "parentObservationId": "<optional_string>",
    "agentId": "<string>"
  }'
  ```
 
  </Tab>


</Tabs>

### Usage

If a tokenizer is specified for the model, AssistMe automatically calculates token amounts for ingested generations.

The following tokenizers are currently supported:

| Tokenizer | Package                                                                            |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `openai`  | [`js-tiktoken`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-tiktoken)                         |
| `claude`  | [`@anthropic-ai/tokenizer`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@anthropic-ai/tokenizer) |

### Cost

Model definitions include prices per unit (input, output, total).

AssistMe automatically calculates cost for ingested generations if (1) usage is ingested or inferred, (2) and a matching model definition includes prices.

## Troubleshooting

**Usage and cost are missing for historical generations**. Except for changes in prices, AssistMe does not retroactively infer usage and cost for existing generations when model definitions are changed. You can request a batch job to apply new model definitions to existing generations.

Commit message:

Changed assistme naming to varex

pages/docs/analytics/model-usage-and-cost.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  Varex tracks usage and cost of LLM generations for various models (incl OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, and more). Add your own model definitions to track any model or custom pricing.
---

# Model Usage & Cost

Across Varex, usage and cost are tracked for LLM generations:

- **Usage**: token/character counts
- **Cost**: USD cost of the generation

Both usage and cost can be either

- [**ingested**](#ingest) via API or integrations
- or [**inferred**](#infer) based on the `model` parameter of the generation. Varex comes with a list of predefined popular models and their tokenizers including OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google models.

Ingested usage and cost are prioritized over inferred usage and cost:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  A[Ingested Observation]
  B["Usage (tokens or other unit)"]
  C["Cost (in USD)"]
  A --> D{Includes usage?}
  D -->|Yes| B
  D -->|No| E(Use tokenizer) --> B
  A --> F{Includes cost?}
  F -->|Yes| C
  F -->|No| G(Use model price/unit) --> C
  B -->|use usage| G
```

## Ingest usage and/or cost [#ingest]

If available in the LLM response, ingesting usage and/or cost is the most accurate and robust way to track usage in Varex:

<Tabs items={["API"]}>
  <Tab>
 
  ```bash
  curl --location 'http://staging.assistme.chat/api/v1/observations' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'Accept: application/json' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer {AssistMe_public_key}"
  --data '{
    "page": "<optional_string>",
    "limit": "<optional_string>",
    "name": "<optional_string>",
    "userId": "<optional_string>",
    "type": "<optional_string>",
    "traceId": "<optional_string>",
    "parentObservationId": "<optional_string>",
    "agentId": "<string>"
  }'
  ```
 
  </Tab>


</Tabs>

### Usage

If a tokenizer is specified for the model, Varex automatically calculates token amounts for ingested generations.

The following tokenizers are currently supported:

| Tokenizer | Package                                                                            |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `openai`  | [`js-tiktoken`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-tiktoken)                         |
| `claude`  | [`@anthropic-ai/tokenizer`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@anthropic-ai/tokenizer) |

### Cost

Model definitions include prices per unit (input, output, total).

Varex automatically calculates cost for ingested generations if (1) usage is ingested or inferred, (2) and a matching model definition includes prices.

## Troubleshooting

**Usage and cost are missing for historical generations**. Except for changes in prices, Varex does not retroactively infer usage and cost for existing generations when model definitions are changed. You can request a batch job to apply new model definitions to existing generations.
