pages/docs/agents/prompts.mdx, before:

---
description: Manage and version your prompts in AssistMe. Edit and update them via the UI and SDK. Retrieve the production version via the SDKs.
---

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";
import { CloudflareVideo } from "@/components/Video";

# Prompt Management

Use AssistMe to effectively manage and version your prompts. This allows you to iterate quickly, publish new prompt versions without redeploying your app, and track metrics by version.

## How to use AssistMe for prompt management

AssistMe features an integrated mechanism that enables version control and oversees the development process and release of new prompt versions.

### Create / Update prompts

**Create**


<Frame border fullWidth>
  ![Create prompt](/images/docs/prompt_managment.gif)
</Frame>


**Update**

Use the edit button in the AssistMe UI or create a new prompt version via the SDKs with the same name.

### Promote prompt to production

Set a prompt version to `active` when creating. In the AssistMe UI, you can promote a prompt version to production:

<Frame border fullWidth>
  ![Promote prompt](/images/docs/promote.gif)
</Frame>

Commit message:

Changed assistme naming to varex

pages/docs/agents/prompts.mdx, after:

---
description: Manage and version your prompts in Varex. Edit and update them via the UI and SDK. Retrieve the production version via the SDKs.
---

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";
import { CloudflareVideo } from "@/components/Video";

# Prompt Management

Use Varex to effectively manage and version your prompts. This allows you to iterate quickly, publish new prompt versions without redeploying your app, and track metrics by version.

## How to use Varex for prompt management

Varex features an integrated mechanism that enables version control and oversees the development process and release of new prompt versions.

### Create / Update prompts

**Create**


<Frame border fullWidth>
  ![Create prompt](/images/docs/prompt_managment.gif)
</Frame>


**Update**

Use the edit button in the Varex UI or create a new prompt version via the SDKs with the same name.

### Promote prompt to production

Set a prompt version to `active` when creating. In the Varex UI, you can promote a prompt version to production:

<Frame border fullWidth>
  ![Promote prompt](/images/docs/promote.gif)
</Frame>
