pages/docs/observability/scores.mdx, before:

---
description: Scores serve as a metric for evaluating individual LLM executions or traces. Commonly used to measure quality, tonality, factual accuracy, completeness, and relevance, among others.
---

# Scores & Evaluation

Scores serve as a metric for evaluating individual executions or traces.

A variety of scores may be utilized, with the most common metrics assessing aspects such as quality, tonality, factual accuracy, completeness, and relevance, among others.

In instances where the score pertains to a specific phase of a trace, for example, a singular LLM call, a message in a chat conversation, or a step in an agent, it is possible to attach the score directly to the observation. This enables targeted evaluation of that particular component.

The `Score` object in AssistMe:

| Attribute       | Type   | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`          | string | Name of the score, e.g. user_feedback, hallucination_eval                                    |
| `value`         | number | Value of the score                                                                           |
| `traceId`       | string | Id of the trace the score relates to                                                         |
| `observationId` | string | Optional: Observation (e.g. LLM call) the score relates to                                   |
| `comment`       | string | Optional: Evaluation comment, commonly used for user feedback, eval output or internal notes |

## Kinds of scores

Scores in AssistMe are adaptable and designed to cater to the unique requirements of specific LLM applications. They typically serve to measure the following aspects:

- Quality
  - Factual accuracy
  - Completeness of the information provided
  - Verification against hallucinations
- Style
  - Sentiment portrayed
  - Tonality of the content
  - Potential toxicity
- Security
  - Similarity to prevalent prompt injections
  - Instances of model refusals (e.g., as a language model, ...)

This flexible scoring system allows for a comprehensive evaluation of various elements integral to the function and performance of the LLM application.

## Ingesting scores

Most users of AssistMe ingest scores programmatically. These are common sources of scores:

| Source                                                   | examples                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Manual evaluation (UI)](/docs/scores/manually)          | Review traces/generations and add scores manually in the UI                                                                                                 |
| [User feedback](/docs/scores/user-feedback)              | Explicit (e.g., thumbs up/down, 1-5 star rating) or implicit (e.g., time spent on a page, click-through rate, accepting/rejecting a model-generated output) |


## Using scores across AssistMe

Scores can be used in multiple ways across AssistMe:

1. Displayed on trace to provide a quick overview
2. Segment all execution traces by scores to e.g. find all traces with a low quality score
3. Analytics: Detailed score reporting with drill downs into use cases and user segments

Commit message:

Changed assistme naming to varex

pages/docs/observability/scores.mdx, after:

---
description: Scores serve as a metric for evaluating individual LLM executions or traces. Commonly used to measure quality, tonality, factual accuracy, completeness, and relevance, among others.
---

# Scores & Evaluation

Scores serve as a metric for evaluating individual executions or traces.

A variety of scores may be utilized, with the most common metrics assessing aspects such as quality, tonality, factual accuracy, completeness, and relevance, among others.

In instances where the score pertains to a specific phase of a trace, for example, a singular LLM call, a message in a chat conversation, or a step in an agent, it is possible to attach the score directly to the observation. This enables targeted evaluation of that particular component.

The `Score` object in Varex:

| Attribute       | Type   | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`          | string | Name of the score, e.g. user_feedback, hallucination_eval                                    |
| `value`         | number | Value of the score                                                                           |
| `traceId`       | string | Id of the trace the score relates to                                                         |
| `observationId` | string | Optional: Observation (e.g. LLM call) the score relates to                                   |
| `comment`       | string | Optional: Evaluation comment, commonly used for user feedback, eval output or internal notes |

## Kinds of scores

Scores in Varex are adaptable and designed to cater to the unique requirements of specific LLM applications. They typically serve to measure the following aspects:

- Quality
  - Factual accuracy
  - Completeness of the information provided
  - Verification against hallucinations
- Style
  - Sentiment portrayed
  - Tonality of the content
  - Potential toxicity
- Security
  - Similarity to prevalent prompt injections
  - Instances of model refusals (e.g., as a language model, ...)

This flexible scoring system allows for a comprehensive evaluation of various elements integral to the function and performance of the LLM application.

## Ingesting scores

Most users of Varex ingest scores programmatically. These are common sources of scores:

| Source                                                   | examples                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Manual evaluation (UI)](/docs/scores/manually)          | Review traces/generations and add scores manually in the UI                                                                                                 |
| [User feedback](/docs/scores/user-feedback)              | Explicit (e.g., thumbs up/down, 1-5 star rating) or implicit (e.g., time spent on a page, click-through rate, accepting/rejecting a model-generated output) |


## Using scores across Varex

Scores can be used in multiple ways across Varex:

1. Displayed on trace to provide a quick overview
2. Segment all execution traces by scores to e.g. find all traces with a low quality score
3. Analytics: Detailed score reporting with drill downs into use cases and user segments
